MRG: Concluding remarks (#541)
INRIA/scikit-learn-mooc: jupyter-book/concluding_remarks.md

## The big messages of the mooc

### 1. The machine learning pipeline

- Predictive models are learned on a train set and then applied to new
  data, a "test set"

- Scikit-learn models are built from a data matrix, of a given number of
  features for each observation

- Transformations of the data are often necessary
  - Typically, encoding of the categorical variables
  - They must only use information available at train time
  - For this, use the scikit-learn Pipeline object

### 2. Adapting model complexity to the data

- Models seek to minimize the error on the test set
  - Minimizing error on the train set does no suffice
  - But too large train error can detect underfit: models too simple for
    the data

- Models come with multiple hyper-parameters
  - They can control model complexity
  - Selecting hyper-parameters is important
  - In scikit-learn this is done with objects such as GridSearchCV,
    RandomSearchCV...

### 3. Specific models

- Understanding the models
  - Helps knowing when they are suited to the data 
  - Gives intuitions on how to debug them

- Linear models
  - build predictions by combining the values of features

>   - Particularly useful for data with many features or few observations
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Particularly useful for data with many features or few observations
  - Can benefit from non-linear feature engineering
```

- Tree-based models:
  - Build predictions by combining a series of binary choices (such as
    thresholds on the values of the various attributes)
  - Particularly suited for tabular data, where columns are quantities
    of different nature, or have missing values
  - HistGradientBoostingRegressor and Classifier are goto methods that
    you are strongly advised to check out

## Going further with machine learning

Let us give a few pointers on going further with machine learning.

### Learning more about scikit-learn

- The [scikit-learn doc](http://scikit-learn.org)
    - The documentation is rich, didactic, continuously improving
- These docs comprise
  - An user guide: Gives the intuition behind every machine-learning
    method, and how it can be useful
  - API docs: Every function, every parameter is explained
  - Examples: each example tries to demonstrate the good use of the software
- Where to ask questions:

>     - Stackoverflow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [Stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/)
    - [GitHub discussions for scikit-learn](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/discussions)
```

### We are an open-source community

- Free, open, driven by a community, trying to be inclusive
- You can contribute
    - Build a community: helping each other, helping training, communication,
      advocacy
    - Curate information: our developers have information overflow
    - Contributing code is technical
	- Learn software engineering:
	- Learn git, github (https://lab.github.com/)

### Topics we have not covered

- Unsupervised learning
    - Finding order and structure in the data, for instance to group samples, or to transform features
    - Particularly useful because it does not need labels
    - But given labels, supervised learning not unsupervised learning, is more likely to recover the link

- Model inspection
    - Understanding what drives a prediction
    - Useful for debuging, for reasonning on the system at hand
    - Requires a lot of nuance

> - Deep learning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Deep learning
    - Often not better than gradient boosting trees for classification or regression
      on tabular data
    - But more flexible: can work natively with tasks that involve variable length
      structures in the input and output of the model (e.g. speech to text)
```

    - For images, text, voice: use pretrained models
    - Comes with great computational and human costs, as well as large maintenance costs

>     - Not in scikit-learn

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Not in scikit-learn: have a look at resources on pytorch and tensorflow to get started!
```

### Studying machine learning further

- [Introduction to Machine Learning with
  Python](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/introduction-to-machine/9781449369880/)
  by Andreas C. Müller, Sarah Guido: explains more advanced use of
  scikit-learn
- [Python Data Science Handbook](https://jakevdp.github.io/PythonDataScienceHandbook/) by Jake van der Plas, a broader picture of data science,
  beyond scikit-learn
- [An Introduction to Statistical Learning](https://www.statlearning.com/),
  by James, Witten, Hastie, Tibshirani: statistical theory 

>   behind the concepts that we have explored

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  behind the concepts that we have explored
- [Hands-On Machine Learning with Scikit-Learn, Keras, and TensorFlow](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/hands-on-machine-learning/9781492032632/) by Aurélien Géron
```

# Concluding remarks

```{admonition} The last course!

- We have covered a lot of material so far

- Congratulations for getting there!

- And thank you to everyone involved, the instructors, all the support
  staff, the people who helped on the forum, and you, the students, for
  the hard work!
```

**This course:**

- Summarizing the big messages of the MOOC
- Going further with machine learning
- Bringing value: The bigger picture beyond machine-learning

## The big messages of the mooc

### 1. The machine learning pipeline

- Predictive models are learned on a train set and then applied to new
  data, a "test set"

- Scikit-learn models are built from a data matrix, of a given number of
  features for each observation

- Transformations of the data are often necessary
  - Typically, encoding of the categorical variables
  - They must only use information available at train time
  - For this, use the scikit-learn Pipeline object

### 2. Adapting model complexity to the data

- Models seek to minimize the error on the test set

>   - Minimizing error on the train set does no suffice

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Minimizing error on the train set does not suffice
```

- The [scikit-learn doc](http://scikit-learn.org)
    - The documentation is rich, didactic, continuously improving
- These docs comprise
  - An user guide: Gives the intuition behind every machine-learning
    method, and how it can be useful
  - API docs: Every function, every parameter is explained
  - Examples: each example tries to demonstrate the good use of the software
- Where to ask questions:
    - [Stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/)
    - [GitHub discussions for scikit-learn](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/discussions)

### We are an open-source community

- Free, open, driven by a community, trying to be inclusive
- You can contribute
    - Build a community: helping each other, helping training, communication,
      advocacy
    - Curate information: our developers have information overflow
    - Contributing code is technical
	- Learn software engineering:
	- Learn git, github (https://lab.github.com/)

### Topics we have not covered

- Unsupervised learning
    - Finding order and structure in the data, for instance to group samples, or to transform features
    - Particularly useful because it does not need labels

>     - But given labels, supervised learning not unsupervised learning, is more likely to recover the link

Reviewer 2: I think this line is not clear enough, which link does it refer to?

Author: OK, I reformulated.

- Model inspection
    - Understanding what drives a prediction

>     - Useful for debuging, for reasonning on the system at hand

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Useful for debugging, for reasoning on the system at hand
```

    - Technical debt (simpler models are easier to maintain, require less compute power)
    - Drifts of the data distribution (require monitoring)

### Technical craft is not all

We gave methodological elements, but these are not enough to always have
solid conclusion from a statistical standpoint.

Once you know how to run the software, the biggest challenges are understanding the data, its shortcomings, and what can and cannot be concluded from an analysis
  - Automating machine learning does not solve data science
  - Domain knowledge and critical thinking about the data

### How the predictions are used

When designing a machine-learning system, we need to think about
how the predictions are used.

Errors mean different things in different application contexts.

- Operational risk:
    - Advertisement: errors are often harmless
    - Medicine: errors can kill
- Operational logic: Better a false detection or a miss?
    - Detecting brain tumors:
        - If a patient is sent to surgery: false detections are very dangerous
        - If a patient given an MR scan to confirm the detection:
	  misses should be avoided, as an MR scan is harmless

> The predictions may modify how the system is functions:
>   - Predicting who will benefit from an hospital stay may overcrowd some units of the hospital, and thus change the positive impact of hospitals on inpatients

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The predictions may modify how the system functions:
  - Predicting who will benefit from a hospital stay may overcrowd some units of the hospital, and thus change the positive impact of hospitals on inpatients
```

### Choice of the output/the labeled dataset

- What we chose to predict is a very loaded choice
- Interesting labels are often hard to get, focusing on the "easy" ways
  of accumulating labels comes with biases
- Our target may be a proxy of the quantity of interest

### Biases in the data

All data come with biases.

- The data may not reflect the ground truth
    - Disease monitoring is function of testing policy
    - It may change with time, it may be uneven across the population (eg higher quality data for rich people)
- The state of affaires may not be the desired one
    - For equal qualifications and responsibilities, women are typically payed less than men. A learner will pick this up and amplify inequalities

### Prediction models versus causal models

Machine learner models are not driven by causal mechanisms.

- For example people that go to the hospital die more than people who do not:

>     - Naive data analysis might conclude that hospital are bad for health

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Naive data analysis might conclude that hospitals are bad for the health
```

    - The fallacy is that we are comparing different populations: people
      who go to the hospital typically have a worse baseline health than
      people who do not.
- Another example: having a heart pressure greater than a threshold
  may trigger specific care which is good. A learner will pick up
  above-threshold heart pressure as predictor of a health improvement
- In pure predictive settings, these informations are beneficial for the
  predictions. However:
 - they should not be trusted when designing interventions
 - predictive models built on such non-causal information may be brittle
   to changes of operational procedures

>  - interpretation is subject to caution

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - interpretation must be subject to caution
```

Author: I think that "is subject to" is preferable

Reviewer 2: Alright, not a strong opinion on this one, I thought we could use "must to" with the intention to "strongly recommend"

Reviewer: Maybe we could have some kind of conclusion to this section:

Quantifying the expected causal effect of a real world intervention is often best
achieved by randomized control trials or A/B tests. In comparison, purely
data-driven observational studies are often tricky to get right in practice.
If you want to learn more about this topic, you might want to explore the
following resources:

- https://github.com/microsoft/EconML
- https://github.com/uber/causalml

### Societal impact

These challenges with biases in the data, feedback loops of the
predictions, can be very important, because **prediction models may affect
people's lives**.

Today, AI systems can be used to allocate loans, screen job applicants,
prioritise medical treatement, help law enforcement or court decisions.

If you know scikit-learn, [fairlearn](https://fairlearn.org) is a simple
resource to understand some problems caused by a too naive application of
machine learning methods.

ML or AI can shift decision logic, power structures, operational costs
  - As all technology, it induces changes in our society. Let us think
    about how to make it better, even though this is a difficult question
  - Responsible use of machine learning involves challenges at the
    intersection of technology and society. No solution will be
    purely technical

----

**Your move: choose what you will do with machine learning**

> - Machine learning drives one of the most important technological revolution of our time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Machine learning drives one of the most important technological revolutions of our time.
```

Reviewer 2: I think "revolutions" here should be in plural as it is meant to be _one out of several_ important technological revolutions

- It is a fantastic opportunity to improve human condition
- With scikit-learn, and this MOOC, we try to lift as much as possible

>   the technical roadblocks, and  wee hope that we can empower a great variety of people, with different mindsets and dreams, to solve the problems that matters to them

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  the technical roadblocks, and  wee hope that we can empower a great variety of people, with different mindsets and dreams, to solve the problems that matter to them
```

Reviewer 2: In this case _to matter_ is the verb and its conjugation for the 3rd person in plural is "the problems (they) matter".

https://www.quora.com/When-should-I-use-matter-or-matters-As-in-if-I-write-she-matters-to-me-Will-it-be-correct

The same applies to the other comments I made.

- Putting in production: when the model is used routinely
    - Technical debt (simpler models are easier to maintain, require less compute power)
    - Drifts of the data distribution (require monitoring)

### Technical craft is not all

We gave methodological elements, but these are not enough to always have
solid conclusion from a statistical standpoint.

Once you know how to run the software, the biggest challenges are understanding the data, its shortcomings, and what can and cannot be concluded from an analysis
  - Automating machine learning does not solve data science
  - Domain knowledge and critical thinking about the data

### How the predictions are used

When designing a machine-learning system, we need to think about
how the predictions are used.

Errors mean different things in different application contexts.

- Operational risk:
    - Advertisement: errors are often harmless
    - Medicine: errors can kill
- Operational logic: Better a false detection or a miss?
    - Detecting brain tumors:
        - If a patient is sent to surgery: false detections are very dangerous
        - If a patient given an MR scan to confirm the detection:

> 	  misses should be avoided, as an MR scan is harmless

Author: Fixed

### Prediction models versus causal models

Machine learner models are not driven by causal mechanisms.

- For example people that go to the hospital die more than people who do not:
    - Naive data analysis might conclude that hospitals are bad for health
    - The fallacy is that we are comparing different populations: people
      who go to the hospital typically have a worse baseline health than
      people who do not.
- Another example: having a heart pressure greater than a threshold
  may trigger specific care which is good. A learner will pick up
  above-threshold heart pressure as predictor of a health improvement
- In pure predictive settings, these informations are beneficial for the
  predictions. However:
 - they should not be trusted when designing interventions
 - predictive models built on such non-causal information may be brittle
   to changes of operational procedures
 - interpretation is subject to caution

### Societal impact

These challenges with biases in the data, feedback loops of the
predictions, can be very important, because **prediction models may affect
people's lives**.

> Today, AI systems can be used to allocate loans, screen job applicants,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Today, AI systems are sometimes used to allocate loans, screen job applicants,
```

prioritise medical treatement, help law enforcement or court decisions.

If you know scikit-learn, [fairlearn](https://fairlearn.org) is a simple

> resource to understand some problems caused by a too naive application of
> machine learning methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
resource to help you understand, assess and sometimes mitigate some
problems caused by a too naive application of machine learning
methods.
```

ML or AI can shift decision logic, power structures, operational costs
  - As all technology, it induces changes in our society. Let us think
    about how to make it better, even though this is a difficult question
  - Responsible use of machine learning involves challenges at the
    intersection of technology and society. No solution will be
    purely technical

A good discussion on these topic can be found in the short article:
[Medicine’s Machine Learning Problem](https://bostonreview.net/articles/rachel-thomas-medicines-machine-learning-problem).

----

**Your move: choose what you will do with machine learning**

- Machine learning drives one of the most important technological revolutions of our time.
- It is a fantastic opportunity to improve human condition

> - With scikit-learn, and this MOOC, we try to lift as much as possible
>   the technical roadblocks, and  wee hope that we can empower a great variety of people, with different mindsets and dreams, to solve the problems that matter to them

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- With scikit-learn, and this MOOC, we try to lift as many technical roadblocks
  as possible, and  we hope that we can empower a great variety of people, with different mindsets and dreams, to solve the problems that matter to them
```
